[Music]
have you ever heard that the oldest
child in a family tends to be very
responsible while children who have no
siblings are far more likely to be
selfish and demanding obvious merely
stereotypes or is it really true today
we've decided to find the answer to this
intriguing question how birth order can
shape your personality the birth order
fairy began in the 1920s with Alfred
elder Sigmund Freud's friends in
colleague outter believed that the order
in which we were born into a family
inherently effectual personality here is
the theory the firstborn child according
to alter the oldest child tends to be
conservative power orientated and
predisposed towards leadership they
often take responsibility for the
younger siblings that's why first Born's
grow up to be more caring more willing
to become parents and more likely to
take initiative the middle child the
older brother or sister is a pacesetter
for the second child that's why they
often struggle to surpass their older
sibling the pace of development is
higher the middle kids in a family often
tend to be ambitious for they're rarely
selfish they're also more likely to set
unreasonably high goals for themselves
this increases the number of failures
however knowing helped to cope with
difficulties in life is what makes them
stronger the youngest child as a rule
the youngest child gets a lot of care
and attention from parents and even
older siblings that's why they may feel
less experienced and independent however
last bones are usually highly motivated
to surpass their older sisters and
brothers they achieve big success and
earn recognition in their chosen field
very often they become the fastest
athletes the best musicians and most
talented artists the youngest children
of family tend to be very sociable
though they are usually more
irresponsible and frivolous than the
older children the only child without
any sibling is to compete with the only
child often compete with his or her
father being overly pampered by their
parents the single child expects
pampering and protection from everyone
around to dependency and
self-centeredness of the
leading qualities of our lives the only
child often has difficulty interacting
with peers many children who have no
siblings become perfectionists and they
usually achieve their goals no matter
what's now all of these lead to three
important questions question one how
does birth order affect IQ scores there
is a theory saying that the order in
which you're born has an impact on your
personality and IQ level this idea has
become very popular recently however it
has also created quite a divide amongst
researchers some dismiss the fairy
entirely and others are convinced it
plays a crucial role researchers from
the University of Leipzig and Giles
Guttenberg the University of Maine's
study more than 20,000 adults for United
States United Kingdom and Germany in
this study they compared siblings with
who families and the orders of their
birth they found that all children
generally show higher performance and
intelligence tests however for
scientists found no birth order effects
on emotional stability and imagination
question number two how does birth order
affect your personality
another study provided more evidence the
birth order affects your personality the
researchers analyzed personality traits
of 377,000 high school students in the
USA
they found the first ones tend to be
more honest and dominant however they
are also less social and less resistant
to stress middle children tend to be
more conscientious and diligent the
youngest child in a family is more
likely to be open and sociable kids have
no siblings often nervous are they also
quite outgoing a social and finally
question number three is birth order
really that important you have to met
the results of these studies have a
number of inaccuracies the research
doesn't take into account important
social factors such as ethnicity
education parents welfare and
relationships within a family birth
order may have a certain impact on your
personality or intelligence however
don't forget the parent-child
relationships and the upbringing that
children receive in their homes are much
more important factors in shaping them
individuals do you agree with all of
this feel free to share your thoughts in
the comments down below and hit the
thumbs up button if you've enjoyed this
video
if you're visiting our channel for the
first time click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life